Add a requirement to discard invalid ciphertexts (#171)
sframe-wg/sframe: draft-ietf-sframe-enc.md

If a ciphertext fails to decrypt because there is no key available for the KID
in the SFrame header, the client MAY buffer the ciphertext and retry decryption
once a key with that KID is received.  If a ciphertext fails to decrypt for any

> other reason, the client MUST discard the ciphertext.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
other reason, the client MUST discard the ciphertext. Invalid ciphertexts SHOULD be
discarded in a way that is indistinguishable (to an external observer) from having 
processed a valid ciphertext.
```

32-bit authentication tag (`Nt=4`), then the attacker would succeed on average
roughly once every 2^12 seconds, or about once an hour.

In a typical SFrame usage in a real-time media application, there are a few
factors that mitigate this risk:

* Receivers only accept SFrame ciphertexts over HBH-secure channels (e.g., SRTP
  security associations or QUIC connections).  So only an entity that is part of
  such a channel can mount the above attack.

* The expected packet rate for a media stream is very predictable (and typically
  far lower than the above example).  On the one hand, attacks at this rate will
  succeed even less often than the high-rate attack described above.  On the
  other hand, the application may use an elevated packet arrival rate as a
  signal of a brute-force attack.  This latter approach is common in other
  settings, e.g., brute-forcing of passwords.

* Media applications typically do not provide feedback to media senders as to
  which media packets failed to decrypt.  When media quality feedback
  mechanisms are used, decryption failures will typically appear as packet
  losses, but only at an aggregate level.

> 
> * Anti-replay mechanisms (see {{replay}}) prevent the attacker from re-using
>   legitimate ciphertexts.  Since the attacker is limited in their ability to
>   synthesize new legitimate (ciphertexts, tag) pairs (e.g., limited to flipping
>   bits in AES-CTR or AES-GCM ciphertexts), they can basically only cause the
>   media decoder to decode random data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```
Anti-replay doesn't protect other members of a call. I'm also not sure that the "can only decode random data" holds, given that plaintexts may be predictable and AES-CTR is malleable.

Author: All of these mitigations are receiver-local, in the sense that they're applied locally.  But it's a fair point about predictable plaintext, let me try to rephrase.

In summary, with proper mitigations, short tags allow an attacker to send random
data to a media stream at a very low rate, using an attack that is
straightforward to recognize and neutralize.  At best, the attacker can trigger
a denial-of-service condition, which they likely could have done anyway simply
by sending meaningless packets, without regard for whether they pass the

> authentication check.

Reviewer: Would remove this paragraph as well

Nonetheless, applications that make use of short tags need to put in place the

> mitigations discussed above.  In many cases, it is simpler to use full-size tags

Reviewer: Link to mitigations?

Author: The mitigations are the bullet points above.  There's not really a way to link to that.  But with the intervening paragraph removed, the reference should be clearer.

MUST reject requests to encrypt multiple times with the same key and nonce,
since several AEAD algorithms fail badly in such cases (see, e.g., {{Section 5.1.1 of RFC5116}}).

## Risks due to Short Tags

The SFrame ciphersuites based on AES-CTR allow for the use of short
authentication tags, which bring a higher risk that an attacker will be
able to cause an SFrame receiver to accept an SFrame ciphertext of the
attacker's choosing.

Assuming that the authentication properties of the ciphersuite are robust, the
only attack that an attacker can mount is an attempt to find an acceptable
(ciphertext, tag) combination through brute force.  Such a brute-force attack
will have an expected sucess rate of the following form:

```
attacker_success_rate = attempts_per_second / 2^(8*Nt)
```

For example, a gigabit ethernet connection is able to transmit roughly 2^20
packets per second.  If an attacker saturated such a link with guesses against a
32-bit authentication tag (`Nt=4`), then the attacker would succeed on average
roughly once every 2^12 seconds, or about once an hour.

In a typical SFrame usage in a real-time media application, there are a few

> factors that mitigate this risk:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
approaches to mitigate this risk:
```

* The expected packet rate for a media stream is very predictable (and typically
  far lower than the above example).  On the one hand, attacks at this rate will
  succeed even less often than the high-rate attack described above.  On the
  other hand, the application may use an elevated packet arrival rate as a
  signal of a brute-force attack.  This latter approach is common in other
  settings, e.g., mitigating brute-force attacks on passwords.

* Media applications typically do not provide feedback to media senders as to
  which media packets failed to decrypt.  When media quality feedback
  mechanisms are used, decryption failures will typically appear as packet
  losses, but only at an aggregate level.

* Anti-replay mechanisms (see {{replay}}) prevent the attacker from re-using
  valid ciphertexts (either observed or guessed by the attacker).  A receiver
  applying anti-replay controls will only accept one valid plaintext per CTR
  value.  Since the CTR value is covered by SFrame authentication, an attacker
  has to do a fresh search for a valid tag for every forged ciphertext, even if
  the encrypted content is unchanged.  In other words, when the above brute

>   force attacke succeeds, it only allows the attacker to send a single SFrame

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  force attack succeeds, it only allows the attacker to send a single SFrame
```

  ciphertext; the ciphertext cannot be reused because either it will have the
  same CTR value and be discarded as a replay, or else it will have a different
  CTR value its tag will no longer be valid.

> Nonetheless, applications that make use of short tags need to put these

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Applications that make use of short tags should consider putting some or all of these
```
